Velexi Template: Julia Package (v0.1.4)
=======================================

___Authors___  
Kevin T. Chu `<kevin@velexi.com>`

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

1. [Overview][#1]

    1.1. [Software Dependencies][#1.1]

    1.2. [Directory Structure][#1.2]

2. [Usage][#2]

    2.1. [Setting Up][#2.1]

    2.2. [Running Tests][#2.2]

    2.3. [Cleaning the Project Directory][#2.3]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 1. Overview

This package template is intended to

* streamline the process of setting up a Julia package and

* provide a collection of tools to support Julia software development (e.g.,
  analysis of unit test coverage).

### 1.1. Software Dependencies

#### Base Requirements

* Julia (>=v1.5)
* git

#### Julia Packages ####

See `[deps]` section of the following `Project.toml` files:

* `Project.toml` (generated by `init-pkg.jl` script)
* `bin/Project.toml`
* `test/Project.toml`

Note that all package dependencies are automatically installed by the Julia
package manager.

### 1.2. Directory Structure

    README.md
    LICENSE
    README.md.template
    RELEASE-NOTES.md.template
    LICENSE.template
    Makefile
    bin/
    src/
    test/
    template-docs/
    template-docs/extras

* `README.md`: this file (same as `README-Template-Usage.md` in the
  `template-docs` directory)

* `LICENSE`: license file for this package template (same as
  `LICENSE-Julia-Template` in the `template-docs` directory)

* `*.template`: template files for the package

    * Template files are indicated by `template` suffix. These files are
      intended to simplify the set up of the dataset repository. They should
      be renamed to remove the `template` suffix.

* `Makefile`: Makefile defining a collection of useful commands to maintain
  software (e.g., `test`, `clean`)

* `bin`: directory containing command-line utilities

    * `init-pkg.jl`: utility to initialize Julia package
    * `coverage.jl`: utility to analyze test coverage

* `src`: directory for source code

    * `ExampleModule.jl` is an example Julia module.
    * `ExampleType.jl` is an example source file for defining a type.
    * `ExampleMethods.jl` is an example source file for defining methods.

* `test`: directory for test code

    * `Example_tests.jl` contains example unit tests.
    * `runtests.jl` is an example test setup file.
    * `Project.toml` contains package dependencies for running unit tests.

* `template-docs`: directory containing documentation this package template

* `template-docs/extras`: directory containing example and template files

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 2. Usage

### 2.1. Setting Up

1. (OPTIONAL) Configure `direnv`.

    * Copy `template-docs/extras/envrc.example` to the package root directory
      and rename it to `.envrc`.

    * Follow `direnv` instructions to enable `.envrc` file.

2. From the package root directory, use `make setup` to add the Julia packages
   required to set up the development environment.

   ```shell
   $ cd PKG_ROOT_DIR
   $ make setup
   ```

3. Initialize the Julia package.

    * Use the `init-pkg.jl` utility to initialize the package. In the following
      command, replace `PKG_NAME` with the name of your package.

      ```shell
      $ bin/init-pkg.jl PKG_NAME
      ```

      Note that `init-pkg.jl` supports several command-line options. To see the
      full list of options, use `init-pkg.jl --help`.

    * Update template files in the `src` and `test` directories to be
      consistent with `PKG_NAME`.

        * Replace all references to the `ExampleModule` module to `PKG_NAME`
          in filenames and source code.

4. Update the contents of all template files and rename them with the
   `template` suffixed removed (overwrite the original `README.md` and
   `LICENSE` files).

### 2.2. Running Tests

* Use `make` to run the unit tests and display coverage information.

  ```shell
  $ make
  ```

  Note that `test` is the default Make target, so `make test` will achieve the
  same result.

### 2.3. Cleaning the Package Directory

* Use `make clean` to automatically remove files and directories generated
  during setup or testing (e.g., temporary directories, coverage files).

  ```shell
  $ make clean
  ```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[-----------------------------INTERNAL LINKS-----------------------------]: #

[#1]: #1-overview
[#1.1]: #11-software-dependencies
[#1.2]: #12-directory-structure

[#2]: #2-usage
[#2.1]: #21-setting-up
[#2.2]: #22-running-tests
[#2.3]: #23-cleaning-the-package-directory

[#3]: #3-references
